# Replication files for the authority gap paper

This repository contains replication files for the paper: "Do female experts face an authority gap?" by Hans Henrik Sievertsen and Sarah Smith. 

## Instructions

This repository contains all raw data, R scripts, Stata do files and copies of the qualtrics surveys (main and follow-up) to replicate the findings in the paper. 

If you have any questions or identify mistakes, please do not hesitate to contact us (mail@hhsievertsen.net).



## Folders

### main 

Contains all chart files in the manuscript and a subset of tables generated by the file "2_analysis.do". The remaining tables are created manually based on the Stata output by the do-file.


### rawdata 

- "aiphotos.dta": chatgpt characterization of the expert photos
- "inst.dta": manually collected background information on the experts
- "code_about.xlsx": the survey response to what the respondents' thought the survey was about and the coded classificaitons.
- "q1.xlsx" to "q10.xlsx": the scrapped expert responses
- "Voices_Expert_Baseline_Prolific_1 July 2023.xlsx": the raw output from the baseline survey generated by Qualtrics. 
- "Voices_Expert_Prolific_12 July 2023_18.56.xlsx": the raw output from the main survey generated by Qualtrics.
- "Voices_Expert_NoInstitution_Prolific_20 September 2024_10.51.xlsx": the raw output from the follow-up survey generated by Qualtrics.


### scripts

  1 "0_load_raw_prolific_data_and_make_long_survey1.R" loads the file "Voices_Expert_Prolific_12 July 2023_18.56.xlsx", reshapes it and creates a Stata dta file.
  
  2 "0_load_raw_prolific_data_and_make_long_survey2.R" loads the file "Voices_Expert_NoInstitution_Prolific_20 September 2024_10.51.xlsx", reshapes it and creates a Stata dta file.
  
  3 "1_clean_data.do" loads the dta files created by 1 and 2. Prepares and saves the dataset "analysisdata.dta".
  
  4 "2_analysis.do" loads "analysisdata.dta" files created by 3. Creates all results and stores them in the main folder (unless they are manually created in the paper)


### temporarydata 

- contains files created by the files in the scripts folder.

### docs

- "qualtrics_survey_main.pdf" copy of the main survey from Qualtrics.
- "qualtrics_survey_follow-up.pdf" copy of the follow-up survey from Qualtrics.


